content/about.md, before:

---
title: About
icon: info
group: main
order: 2
---

# About idcmd

idcmd is a markdown-powered docs site for people who don't care about markdown.
More accurately: it’s a small, deterministic system that’s easy for a human to use and easy for an AI agent to maintain.

---

## Philosophy: constraints are the product

Most static site generators win by giving you escape hatches.
idcmd wins by removing them.

- Plain markdown in
- Preact SSR renders the shell (sidebar, right rail, search UI)
- Plain HTML out
- One CSS file for the entire visual language
- Optional JS only when explicitly enabled and scoped

When the rules are simple, agents can keep the system healthy.

---

## The split (Markdown vs Preact)

Markdown is the content model. Preact is the view engine.

This is intentionally not MDX, and it’s intentionally not “React components in your docs”.
Content stays boring. The app stays deterministic.

---

## Infra as content

Treat your docs like infrastructure:

- inputs are versioned
- outputs are predictable
- changes are verified

Today, that “contract” is mostly enforced by:

- URL invariants
- JS policy
- tests and `bun run check`

Next (planned): content contracts (Zod), dead-link checks, and stricter shape validation so agents can’t accidentally drift the site.

---

## What idcmd is not

- Not an MDX playground
- Not a component framework
- Not a client-side app disguised as docs

It’s a fast publishing pipeline for content.

Commit message:

Add SSR doc components with agent-friendly markdown expansion

content/about.md, after:

---
title: About
icon: info
group: main
order: 2
---

# About idcmd

idcmd is a markdown-powered docs site for people who don't care about markdown.
More accurately: it’s a small, deterministic system that’s easy for a human to use and easy for an AI agent to maintain.

---

## Philosophy: constraints are the product

Most static site generators win by giving you escape hatches.
idcmd wins by removing them.

- Plain markdown in
- Preact SSR renders the shell (sidebar, right rail, search UI)
- Plain HTML out
- One CSS file for the entire visual language
- Optional JS only when explicitly enabled and scoped

When the rules are simple, agents can keep the system healthy.

---

## The split (Markdown vs Preact)

Markdown is the content model. Preact is the view engine.

This is intentionally not MDX. When you need richer blocks, you use constrained _doc components_ in Markdown (standalone lines like `<InstallTabs pkg="zod" />`).

- HTML pages render components via SSR (no hydration by default)
- `/<slug>.md` expands components to plain markdown so agents never see JSX/MDX

---

## Infra as content

Treat your docs like infrastructure:

- inputs are versioned
- outputs are predictable
- changes are verified

Today, that “contract” is mostly enforced by:

- URL invariants
- JS policy
- tests and `bun run check`

Next (planned): content contracts (Zod), dead-link checks, and stricter shape validation so agents can’t accidentally drift the site.

---

## What idcmd is not

- Not an MDX playground
- Not a component framework
- Not a client-side app disguised as docs

It’s a fast publishing pipeline for content.
